# Projects

The directory `/opt/plcnext/projects` is conventionally used as the root for all PLCnext Control projects. The `PCWE`<sup>1</sup> directory is installed with the firmware, and this is set as the default project directory using the `current` symbolic link. When you deploy a project to the PLC using PLCnext Engineer, the `PCWE` directory is where it will be installed.

If you do not want to use a PLCnext Engineer project as your default project, you can update the `current` link to point to your own default project.

But what does it mean to be the "default project"? In other words, what is the purpose of the `current` link?

## The `current` link

Projects can contain (among other things) configuration files for instances of the following PLCnext runtime components:

* SCM - System Component Manager - instantiates ACF components?
* PLM
* ECLR
* IO (AxC, IbM, PnC, EIP)
* GDS
* ESM
* OPC UA

(If you're not using the PLM to instantiate real-time C++ programs, and you are not targeting the ECLR with e.g. IEC programs, then there is no requirement )

(dont use env var names, use the absolute path - since firmware files shouldn't be edited, these paths shouldn't change, and it reduces confusion for the reader)

When the PLCnext runtime starts, these component instances look for configuration files in the following locations under the ARP_PROJECT_CURRENT_DIR directory:

| Component | Instance | Config file | (settings file) |
|:----------|:---------|:------------|:----------------|
| ACF || *.acf.config | |
| AxC || Io/Arp.Io.AxlC/*.axlc.config<br/>Io/Arp.Io.AxlC/links.xml | |
| EiP || Io/Arp.Io.EthernetIP/*.EthernetIP.config<br/>Io/Arp.Io.EthernetIP/links.xml | |
| IbM || Io/Arp.Io.IbM/*.ibm.config<br/>Io/Arp.Io.IbM/links.xml | |
| PnC || Io/Arp.Io.PnC/*.pnc.config<br/>Io/Arp.Io.PnC/links.xml | |
| ECLR || Plc/Eclr/eCLR.img | | (CAN BE DISABLED)
| ESM || Plc/Esm/*.esm.config | |
| FbIo.AxC || Io/Arp.Io.AxlC/*.fbio.config<br/>Io/Arp.Io.AxlC/links.xml | |
| FbIo.EiP || Io/Arp.Io.EthernetIP/*.fbio.config<br/>Io/Arp.Io.EthernetIP/links.xml | |
| FbIo.IbM || Io/Arp.Io.IbM/*.fbio.config<br/>Io/Arp.Io.IbM/links.xml | |
| FbIo.PnC || Io/Arp.Io.PnC/*.fbio.config<br/>Io/Arp.Io.PnC/links.xml | |
| GDS || Plc/Gds/*.gds.config | |
| Meta ?? || Plc/Meta/*.meta.config | |
| PLM || Plc/Plm/*.plm.config | |

All the above are included from config files in the Default project (/opt/plcnext/projects/Default).

| OpcUA || Services/OpcUA/PCWE.opcua.config | | (this is from /etc/plcnext/device/Services/OpcUA/opcua.settings)
- IS THIS CONFIG FILE NECESSARY? WHY MUST IT BE CALLED "PCWE" ?
- note that this config file also references the ARP_PROJECT_PLCNE_DIR env var ... WHAT DOES THIS DO? IS THIS NECESSARY?
(CAN BE DISABLED)

| Domain || Plc/Domain/*.plc.config | |
- this is from /etc/plcnext/device/Plc/Domain/Default.plc.config
- WHAT DOES THIS DO?

(give the name of the component, the instance, the path it looks in, and the settings file where the path is specified)

The `$CURRENT_PROJECT` environment variable is set using the value of the `current` link, in the file ...

## Setting the default project

(how)
ln -sfn MyRuntime current

You should disable any services that you have not provided configuration files for - for example, ECLR, OPC UA, IO modules. Some of these services do not need to be disabled - they can still run without configuration files - but some (like ECLR) must be disabled if there is no configuration provided.

Once you change the `current` link to refer to your own project, none of the files in the `PCWE` directory are used by the PLCnext runtime, and you can delete the `PCWE` directory if you want. Note that after the `PCWE` directory is deleted, it will no longer be possible to use PLCnext Engineer with this PLC.

## Including configurations from non-default projects

Earlier in the book we created `MyProject` and instantiated a component from this project using an acf.config file in the `Default` directory. In that case, `PCWE` was still the default project, and `MyProject` was not. Now that MyProject is the default project, we can use a similar principle to reference resources in non-default projects ... like the `PCWE` project!

Why might we want to do this? ... you might want to use of some of the features of PLCnext Engineer - e.g. IEC programming. (MAKE THIS A SEPARATE CHAPTER?). IEC and C# programs targeting the ECLR must be written using PLCnext Engineer, and PLCnext Engineer always downloads to the `PCWE` directory. (SHOW HOW TO DO THIS)
(THE GDS FILE MUST CONTAIN SOME DEFAULT ENTRIES, DEPENDING ON THE FIELDBUS BEING USED)

## EXAMPLE 1: Removing PCWE

## EXAMPLE 2: Using PCWE as the non-default project

## Dependencies


---

<sup>1</sup> PCWE is short for *PC Worx Engineer*, which was the original name of PLCnext Engineer.
